.TH MORIO 8 "February 2024" "Version 1.0" "Administrative Commands"

.SH NAME
morio \- Manage the morio beats agents and configuration on this system

Morio leverages auditbeat, filebeat, and metricbeat under the hood and this command facilitates managing their configuration.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B morio
[\fIOPTION\fR]
.br
.B morio
[\fICOMMAND\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIMorio\fR is a command-line utility to manage and configure the Morio beats agents on this system.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Display help information

.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fR
Display version information

.SH COMMANDS
.TP

\fBapt\fR
Add the Elastic APT repository to the system

.TP
\fBcc\fR
Set up command completion for the morio command

.TP
\fBaudit\fR
Invoke the auditbeat agent. Further command-line options are passed through to auditbeat.

\fBaudit --help\fR
Show the auditbeat help. Use this to learn about all of auditbeat's commands and options.

.TP
\fBlogs\fR
Invoke the filebeat agent. Further command-line options are passed through to filebeat.

\fBlogs --help\fR
Show the filebeat help. Use this to learn about all of filebeat's commands and options.

.TP
\fBmetrics\fR
Invoke the metricbeat agent. Further command-line options are passed through to metricbeat.

\fBlogs --help\fR
Show the metricbeat help. Use this to learn about all of metricbeat's commands and options.

.TP
\fBstart\fR
Start morio beats agents

.TP
\fBstop\fR
Stop morio beats agents

.TP
\fBrestart\fR
Restart morio beats agents

.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Show status of the morio beats agents

.TP
\fBtemplate\fR
Template-out the morio beats agents configuration.

Morio uses the Mustache template language to combine configuration templates for the various beats agents with local variables.
.br
The variables are kept in \fI/etc/morio/vars\fR and this command will read them and then template out the configuration based on the templates in:

- \fI/etc/morio/audit/module-templates.d\fR for Auditbeat
.br
- \fI/etc/morio/metrics/module-templates.d\fR for Metricbeat
.br
- \fI/etc/morio/metrics/module-templates.d\fR for Filebeat modules
.br
- \fI/etc/morio/metrics/input-templates.d\fR for Filebeat inputs

.TP
\fBvars\fR
Manage template variables for use in the morio beats agents configurations

\fBvars set NAME VALUE\fR
Set variable NAME to VALUE

\fBvars edit NAME\fR
Open an editor to edit variable NAME

\fBvars ls\fR
List the names of all morio variables set on the system

\fBvars dump\fR
List the names and values of all morio variables set on the system

\fBvars rm NAME\fR
Remove variable NAME

\fBvars wipe\fR
Remove all morio variables set on the system

.TP
\fBflags\fR
Flags are what we call morio variables (vars) that are booleans (true or false), and can be manage with the \fBvars\fR command.
.br
When templating out the agents configuration, morio will resolve any variable that is not set, or holds the string \fBfalse\fR as boolean false.
.br
So while flags are variables under the hood, and can be managed with the \fBmorio vars\fR command, the \fBmorio flags\fR command is provided for convenience to manage such boolean variables.

\fBvars enable NAME\fR
Set variable NAME to true

\fBvars disable NAME\fR
Set variable NAME to false

\fBvars rm NAME\fR
Remove variable NAME


.SH EXAMPLES
$ sudo \fBmorio apt\fR
.br
Set up the Elastic Beats apt repository on this system, so the beats agents
can be installed as dependencies.

$ sudo \fBmorio audit --help\fR
.br
Show the auditbeat help

$ sudo \fBmorio logs --help\fR
.br
Show the filebeat help

$ sudo \fBmorio metrics --help\fR
.br
Show the metricbeat help

$ sudo \fBmorio start\fR
.br
Starts all morio beats agents (auditbeat, metricbeat, and filebeat).

$ sudo \fBmorio stop\fR
.br
Stops all morio beats agents (auditbeat, metricbeat, and filebeat).

$ sudo \fBmorio restart\fR
.br
Restarts all morio beats agents (auditbeat, metricbeat, and filebeat).

$ sudo \fBmorio status\fR
.br
Shows the status of all morio beats agents (auditbeat, metricbeat, and filebeat).

$ sudo \fBmorio template\fR
.br
Template-out the confuguration for the various agents, using the morio variables set on the system.

$ sudo \fBmorio vars list\fR
.br
List the names of the morio template variables set on this system.

$ sudo \fBmorio vars dump\fR
.br
List the names and values of the morio template variables set on this system.

$ sudo \fBmorio vars set PROXY_FILE_NAME /var/log/nginx.access.log\fR
.br
Set the PROXY_FILE_NAME variable to /var/log/nginx.access.log

$ sudo \fBmorio vars edit PROXY_FILE_NAME\fR
.br
Open an editor to edit the PROXY_FILE_NAME variable

$ sudo \fBmorio vars rm PROXY_FILE_NAME\fR
.br
Remove the PROXY_FILE_NAME variable

$ sudo \fBmorio flags enable MORIO_DEBUG\fR
.br
Set the MORIO_DEBUG variable to true

$ sudo \fBmorio flags disable MORIO_DEBUG\fR
.br
Set the MORIO_DEBUG variable to false

.SH AUTHOR
Joost De Cock (joost.decock@cert.europa.eu)


